# Module 7: Comparing Database Options in Azure

# Lab: Deploying Database Instances in Azure

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Deploy a Cosmos DB Database Instance

- Deploy Applications using Cosmos DB

- Connect Cosmos DB to Azure Search

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy a Cosmos DB Database Instance

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create Cosmos DB Database

1. Create an **Azure Cosmos DB** instance with the following details:

    - Name: any globaly unique name

    - API: SQL

    - New Resource Group: MOD07CSBD

    - Location: East US

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.  

1. Access the newly created **Azure Cosmos DB** account.

1. Add a **Collection** with the following details:

    - Database ID: FinancialClubDatabase

    - Collection ID: MemberCollection

    - Storage capacity: Fixed (10 GB)

    -Throughput: 400*

1. Wait for the creation of the new **database** and **collection** to finish before moving on with this lab.

1. Record the values in the **URI** and **Primary Key** fields listed in the Keys blade. You will use these values later in this lab.

#### Task 3: Create and Query Documents in Cosmos DB

1. Return to the  **Data Explorer** blade.

1. Start a new Query with the **MemberCollection** node.

1. Replace and execute the existing query with the following query:

    ```
    SELECT 
        *
    FROM
        coll
    ```

1. Inside the **MemberCollection** node, create a document within the **Documents** node with the following code:

    ```
    {
        "firstName": "Pennington",
        "lastName": "Oneal",
        "age": 26,
        "salary": 90000.00,
        "company": "Veraq",
        "isVested": false
    }
    ```

1. Create another document with the following code:

    ```
    {
        "firstName": "Suzanne",
        "lastName": "Oneal"
    }
    ```

1. Start a new query.

1. Replace and execute the existing query with the following query:

    ```
    SELECT 
        *
    FROM
        coll
    ```

1. Replace and execute the existing query with the following query:

    ```
    SELECT 
        coll.id, 
        coll.firstName, 
        coll.lastName,
        coll.isVested
    FROM 
        coll
    WHERE
        IS_DEFINED(coll.isVested)
    ```

1. Replace and execute the existing query with the following query:

    ```
    SELECT 
        coll.id, 
        coll.firstName, 
        coll.lastName,
        coll.age
    FROM 
        coll
    WHERE
        coll.age > 20
    ```

1. Replace and execute the existing query with the following query:

    ```
    SELECT VALUE 
        coll.id 
    FROM
        coll
    ```

1. Replace and execute the existing query with the following query:

    ```
    SELECT VALUE { 
        "badgeNumber": SUBSTRING(coll.id, 0, 8),
        "departmentId": SUBSTRING(coll.id, 9, 4),
        "fullName": CONCAT(coll.firstName, " ", coll.lastName)
    } FROM coll
    ```

## Exercise 2: Deploy Application using Cosmos DB

#### Task 1: Deploy API App and Code using ARM and GitHub

1. Create a Template Deployment with the following details:

    - Custom Deployment: Allfiles (F):\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\Starter\\api.json

    - Resource Group: MOD07CSDB

1. Wait for the deployment task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 2: Validate API App

1. Access the **App Service** you most recently created.

1. In the **Application Settings** blade, Update the **App Settings** section with the following details:

    - CosmosDB:AuthorizationKey: Use the Primary Key from the **Cosmos DB** instance you created earlier in this lab.

    - CosmosDB:EndointUrl: Use the Uri from the **Cosmos DB** instance you created earlier in this lab.

1. Save the settings then restart the **App Service**.

1. Browse the App Service.

    > **Note**: If you click the browse button before the *Web App* has fully restarted, you may see an error message. Simply refresh your browser until the *Web App* is running again.

1. In the **Swagger UI** homepage, click the link to expand the section for the **/Get** call using the *GET* HTTP Verb.

1. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

1. Observe the results of the request.

1. Back in the **Swagger UI** homepage, click the link to expand the section for the **/Populate** call using the *POST* HTTP Verb.

1. Locate the **Parameters** section. In the **Value** field for the **options** parameter, paste in the following JSON content:

    ```
    {
        "quantity": 50
    }
    ```

1. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

1. Observe the results of the request.

1. Back in the **Swagger UI** homepage, click the link to expand the section for the **/Get** call using the *GET* HTTP Verb.

1. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

1. Observe the results of the request.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new API App that uses the .NET Core DocumentDB SDK to connect to Azure Cosmos DB and manipulate documents.

## Exercise 3: Connect Cosmos DB to Azure Search

#### Task 1: Create Azure Search Instance

1. Create a new **Azure Search** instance with the following details:

    - URL: any globaly unique value

    - Resource Group: MOD07CSDB

    - Location: East US

    - Pricing Tier: Free

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.  

1. Access your newly created **Azure Search** instance.

1. In the **Keys** blade, record the value of the **PRIMARY ADMIN KEY** field. Additionally, record the name of your Azure Search instance. You will use these values later in this lab.

#### Task 2: Index Cosmos DB Data in Azure Search

1. Access the **Azure Cosmos DB account** you created ealier in the lab.

1. Add an **Azure Search** with the following details.

    - Search Service: The **Azure Search** instance you created earlier in the lab.

    - Data Source Name: cosmosdata

    - Database: FinancialClubDatabase

    - Collection: MemberCollection

    - Query: Enter the following SQL query:

        SELECT 
            coll.id,
            coll.firstName,
            coll.lastName,
            coll.age,
            coll.salary,
            coll.company,
            coll.isVested,
            coll._ts
        FROM
            coll
        WHERE
            coll._ts >= @HighWaterMark
        ORDER BY coll._ts     

    - Query results ordered by _ts: Checked

    - Index Name: memberindex

    - Key: id

    - id field: Ensure retrievable, filterable, and sortable options are checked.

    - firstName: Ensure retrievable, sortable, and searchable options are checked.

    - lastName: Ensure retrievable, sortable, and searchable options are checked.

    - age: Ensure retrievable, filterable, sortable, and facetable options are checked.

    - salary: Ensure retrievable, filterable, sortable, and facetable options are checked.

    - company: Ensure retrievable, facetable, and searchable options are checked.

    - isVested: Ensure retrievable, filterable, sortable, and facetable options are checked.

    - Indexer Name: cosmosmemberindexer

    - Schedule: Custom

    - Interval: 5

    - Start time (UTC): 2016-01-01

#### Task 3: Validate API App

1. Access the **App Service** you created earlier in this lab.

1. In the **Application Settings** blade, Update the **App Settings** section with the following details:

    - Search:AccountName: The name of the **Azure Search** instance you created earlier in this lab.

    - Search:QueryKey: The **Primary Key** of the **Azure Search** instance you created earlier in this lab.

1. Save the settings then restart the **App Service**.

1. Browse the App Service.

    > **Note**: If you click the browse button before the *Web App* has fully restarted, you may see an error message. Simply refresh your browser until the *Web App* is running again.

1. In the **Swagger UI** homepage, locate the dropdown list with the content **Cosmos DB API v.1.0.0** at the top of the page. Select the **Cosmos DB API v.2.0.0** option from the list.

1. Click the link to expand the section for the **/Documents/search** call using the *GET* HTTP Verb.

1. Locate the **Parameters** section. In the **Value** field for the **query** parameter, enter the following value:

    ```
    Oneal
    ```

1. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

1. Observe the results of the request.

1. Back in the **Parameters** section. In the **Value** field for the **query** parameter, enter the following value:

    ```
    penn*
    ```

1. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

1. Observe the results of the request.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created an Azure Search instance that uses an indexer to index the documents in Azure Cosmos DB.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD07CSDB --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
