# Module 8: Networking Azure Application Components 

# Lab: Deploying Network Components for Use in Azure Solutions

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Create an ARM Template for a Linux VM

- Duplicate Virtual Machine Resources

- Create a Load Balancer Resource

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create an ARM Template for a Linux VM

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create a Basic Linux-VM ARM Template

1. Create a new **Template deployment** with the following details:

    - Common template: Linux virtual machine

    - New Resource Group: MOD08LSVM

    - Admin Username: Student

    - Admin Password: StudentPa55w.rd

    - Dns Label Prefix: any globally unique name

1. Wait for the deployment to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Install Apache in the Linux VM

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az vm extension set --publisher Microsoft.Azure.Extensions --version 2.0 --name CustomScript --vm-name MyUbuntuVM --resource-group MOD08LSVM --settings '{"commandToExecute":"apt-get -y update && apt-get -y install apache2"}'
    ```

1. Wait for the **extension** to finish installing before moving on with this lab.

    > **Note**: This command can take up to ten minutes.

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 4: Validate the Linux VM

1. Access the **Vitual Machine** you recently created.

1. Copy and navigate to the **DNS name** listed.

1. Observe the *Apache* placeholder webpage.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

#### Task 5: Validate the ARM Template

1. Access the **Resource Group** you recently created.

1. Access the latest **Microsoft.Template** that was deployed.

1. Observe the inputs and outputs from the deployment operation.

1. Add a **library** to the template with the following details:

    - Name: linuxvm

    - Description: Linux Virtual Machine

1. Download the template and save it to your local drive.

## Exercise 2: Duplicate Virtual Machine Resources

#### Task 1: Update ARM Template to use Copy Functionality to Create Three VMs.

1. Access your recently created **Template**.

1. Start the deployment process, and edit the template by loading **copy.json** located **Allfiles (F):\\Mod08\\Labfiles\\Starter**.

1. Create the **Custom deployment** with the following details:

    - New Resource Group: MOD08LMVM

    - Location: East US

    - Admin Username: Student

    - Admin Password: StudentPa55w.rd

1. Wait for the deployment to complete before moving on with this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed an ARM template that created three copies of the same Linux-based Virtual Machine.

## Exercise 3: Create a Load Balancer Resource

#### Task 1: Install Nginx on the Linux Virtual Machines

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az vm run-command invoke --command-id RunShellScript --scripts "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y nginx" --ids $(az vm list --resource-group MOD08LMVM --query [].id --output tsv)
    ```

1. Wait for the **run command** operation to finish on all virtual machines before moving on with this lab.

    > **Note**: This command can take up to fifteen minutes.

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 2: Create a Public IP Address

1. Create a new **Public IP address** with the following details:

    - Name: PrimaryPIP

    - IP Version: IPv4

    - IP address assignment: Dynamic

    - Idle timeout (minutes): 10

    - DNS name label: any globally unique name.

    - Resource Group: MOD08LMVM

    - Location: East US

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create a Load Balancer 

1. Create a new **Load Balancer** with the following details:

    - Name: DistributedLB

    - Type: Public

    - Public IP Address: PrimaryPIP

    - Resource Group: MOD08LMVM

    - Location: EastUS

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 4: Associate the Load Balancer with Three NICs

1. Access the **Load Balancer** you created recently.

1. Add a new **Backend pool** with the following details:

    - Name: LinuxVirtualMachines

    - IP Version: IPv4

    - Associated to: Availability Set

    - Availability Set: BalancedSet

    Add a target network IP configuration

    - Target virtual machine: MyUbuntuVM0

    - Network IP configuration: myVMNic0

    Add a target network IP configuration

    - Target virtual machine: MyUbuntuVM1

    - Network IP configuration: myVMNic1

    Add a target network IP configuration

    - Target virtual machine: MyUbuntuVM2

    - Network IP configuration: myVMNic2

1. Wait for the *backend pool* creation process to finish before moving on with the lab.

#### Task 5: Configure the Load Balancer to Probe Virtual Machines

1. Still within the **Load Balancer** blade, add a new **Health Probe** with the following details:

    - Name: WebServerProbe

    - Protocol: TCP

    - Port: 80

    - Interval: 5

    - Unhealthy threshold: 3

1. Wait for the *health probe* creation process to finish before moving on with the lab.

#### Task 6: Configure the Load Balancer to Distribute HTTP Requests

1. Still within the **Load Balancer** blade, add a new **Load Balancing Rule** with the following details:

    - Name: WebServerBalancing

    - IP Version: IPv4

    - Protocol: TCP

    - Port: 80

    - Backend Port: 80

    - Backend pool: LinuxVirtualMachines
    
    - Health Probe: WebServerProbe

    - Session persistence: None

    - Idle timeout (minutes): 10

    - Floating IP (direct server return): Disabled

1. Wait for the *load balancing rule* creation process to finish before moving on with the lab.

#### Task 7: Validate the Load Balancer and VM Configuration

1. Access the **Public IP Address** you recently created.

1. Locate and navigate to the **IP address** listed in the blade in a new browser tab.

1. Observe the *Nginx* placeholder webpage.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a Load Balancer using the three NICs associated with Linux-based Virtual Machines created earlier using an ARM template.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD08LSVM** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD08LSVM --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD08LMVM** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD08LMVM --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
