# Module 4: Creating Managed Server Applications in Azure

# Lab: Deploying Managed Server Workloads to Azure

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Create an Azure Container Service Cluster

- Deploy a Docker Image to Azure Container Service Cluster

- Deploy a Docker Image to Azure Container Instance

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Azure Container Service (ACS) Cluster

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create Docker Swarm ACS Cluster using Cloud Shell

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. Within the **Cloud Shell** create a new **Resource Group** with the following details

    - Name MOD04ACSC

    - Location: East US

    ```
    az group create --name MOD04ACSC --location eastus
    ```

1. Create a new **Container Service** with the following details:

    - Name: DockerSwarmCluster 

    - Orchestrator: Swarm
    
    - Resource group: MOD04ACSC

    - Agent Count: 1

    ```
    az acs create --name DockerSwarmCluster --orchestrator-type Swarm --resource-group MOD04ACSC --agent-count 1 --generate-ssh-keys
    ```

1. Wait for the ACS creation operation to complete.


#### Task 3: Configure Tunnel Connection to ACS Cluster using SSH

1. Within the **Cloud Shell** instance, query for a list of **Public IP Addresses** in your **Resource Group** that contain the term **master** in their name:

    ```
    az network public-ip list --resource-group MOD04ACSC --query "[?contains(name, 'master')].{Name:name,IPAddress:ipAddress}" -o table
    ```

1. Record the value of the **IPAddress** field in the query results. This is the *IP Address* of your *Docker Swarm* **master**.

1. Query for a list of **Public IP Addresses** in your **Resource Group** that contain the term **agent** in their name: 

    ```
    az network public-ip list --resource-group MOD04ACSC --query "[?contains(name, 'agent')].{Name:name,IPAddress:ipAddress}" -o table
    ```

1. Record the value of the **IPAddress** field in the query results. This is the *IP Address* of your *Docker Swarm* **agent pool**.

1. Create a SSH tunnel connection to the Docker Swarm **master** using the *IP Address you recorded earlier:

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a SSH tunnel connection to the Docker Swarm **master** using the *IP Address* you recorded earlier:

    ```
    ssh -p 2200 -fNL 2375:localhost:2375 azureuser@[Master IP Address]
    ```

1. You will see a prompt indicating that the authenticity of the host can't be established. Type in **yes** and press **Enter** to continue connecting.

## Exercise 2: Deploy Docker Image to Azure Container Service (ACS) Cluster

#### Task 1: Deploy a Basic Docker Image to ACS using Tunnel Connection

1. Still within the Cloud Shell, Set an environment variable to make it easier to run *docker* commands:

    ```
    export DOCKER_HOST=:2375
    ```

1. Validate that docker commands work with your Docker Swarm cluster:

    ```
    docker info
    ```

1. Run the **nginx** web server in a container within your Docker Swarm cluster:

    ```
    docker run -d -p 80:80 --name webserver nginx
    ```

1. In a new browser tab, navigate to the **agent pool* *IP address* you copied earlier in this lab.

1. Observe the nginx web server placeholder webpage.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

1. Returning to the Cloud Shell, query a list of all running containers:

    ```
    docker ps
    ```

1. Stop the **webserver** container:

    ```
    docker stop webserver
    ```

1. Remove the **webserver** container:

    ```
    docker rm webserver
    ```

1. Query a list of all running containers:

    ```
    docker ps
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

## Exercise 3: Deploy Docker Image to Azure Container Instance

#### Task 1: Create Azure Container Instance with Docker Hub Image

1. Create a new **Container Instances** with the following details:

    - Container Name: webapplication

    - Container image type: Public

    - Container image: microsoft/aci-helloworld

    - New Resource Group: MOD04ACIN

    - Location: East US

    - OS Type: Linux

    - Number of Cores: 2

    - Memory (GB): 4

    - Public IP address: Yes

    - Port: 80

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.  

#### Task 2: Validate Container Deployment

1. Access the newly created **Container Group** you recently created.

1. Copy and navigate to the **IP address** of the **Container Group**.

1. Observe the home page of the running Node.js web application.

1. Return to **Azure Portal**.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you used an **Azure Container Instance** to deploy a single Docker container.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD04ACSC** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD04ACSC --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD04ACIN** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD04ACIN --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
