# Module 5: Authoring Serverless Applications in Azure

# Lab: Deploying Serverless Workloads to Azure

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Create a Web App

- Deploy Web App Code

- Deploy a Function App and Code

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Web App

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create App Service Plan

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance

1. Within the **Cloud Shell** insance, create a **Resource Group** with the following details:

    - Name: MOD05APPS

    - Location: East US

    ```
    az group create --name MOD05APPS --location eastus
    ```

1. Create a **Resource Group** with the following details:

    - Name: MOD05FUNC

    - Location: East US

    ```
    az group create --name MOD05FUNC --location eastus
    ```

1. Query for a list of possible CLI commands for *App Service*:

    ```
    az appservice --help
    ```

1. Query for a list of possible CLI commands for *App Service Plans*: 

    ```
    az appservice plan --help
    ```

1. Query for a list of possible CLI commands to *create App Service Plans*: 

    ```
    az appservice plan create --help
    ```

1. Create a **App Service Plan** with the following details:

    - Name: HostedServicePlan

    - Resource Group: MOD05APPS

    - Location: East US

    - Size: B2

    - OS: Linux

    ```
    az appservice plan create --is-linux --name HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --location eastus --sku B2
    ```

#### Task 3: Create a Web App Instance


1. Still within the **Cloud Shell** instance query for a list of possible CLI commands for *Web Apps*:

    ```
    az webapp --help
    ```

1. Query for a list of possible CLI commands to *create Web Apps*: 

    ```
    az webapp create --help
    ``` 

1. Query for a list of possible *runtimes* for a *linux-based az webApp Service* instance: 

    ```
    az webapp list-runtimes --linux
    ``` 

1. Create a new blank **Web App** with the following details:

    - Name: any globaly unique name

    - Resource group: MOD05APPS

    - App Service plan: HostedServicePlan

    - Runtime Stack: DOTNETCORE|2.0

    ```
    az webapp create --name [Unique Name Here] --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --runtime "DOTNETCORE|2.0"
    ```

1. Access the newly created **Web App**.

1. Browse and observe the placeholder page provided by Azure App Service.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to **Azure Portal**.

## Exercise 2: Deploy Web App Code

#### Task 1: Deploy Code with a Web App Extension using ARM and GitHub

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. Create a new blank **Web App** with the following details:

    - Name: any globaly unique name

    - Resource group: MOD05APPS

    - App Service plan: HostedServicePlan

    - Runtime Stack: NODE|9.4

    ```
    az webapp create --name [Unique Name Here] --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --runtime "NODE|9.4"
    ```

1. Create a Template Deployment with the following Details:

    - Custom Deployment: Allfiles (F):\\Mod05\Labfiles\\Starter\\github.json

    - Resource Group: MOD05APPS

    - Web App Name: the name of the web app you most recently created

    - Repository Url: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/nodejs-docs-hello-world

    - Branch: master

1. Wait for the deployment task to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access the newly created **Web App**.

1. Browse and observe the sample Node.js web application deployed from github.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to **Azure Portal**.

#### Task 2: Deploy Code with a Docker Hub Container Image

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. Create a new **Web App** with the following details:

    - Name: any globaly unique name

    - Resource group: MOD05APPS

    - App Service plan: HostedServicePlan

    - Configure container: ghost

    ```
    az webapp create --name [Unique Name Here] --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --deployment-container-image ghost
    ```

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access the newly created **Web App**.

1. Browse and observe the Blog application deployed from Docker Hub.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to **Azure Portal**.

## Exercise 3: Deploy Function App and Code

#### Task 1: Deploy Function App with Code using ARM

1. Create a new Template Deployment with the following details:

    - Custom quickstart template: 201-function-app-dedicated-github-deploy

    - Resource Group: MOD05FUNC

    - App Name: any unique name

    - Sku: Basic

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access the newly created **Function App**.

1. Locate and navigate to the **Url** listed to see the Function App landing page.

1. Close the additional browser tab and return to **Azure Portal**.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD05APPS** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD05APPS --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD05FUNC** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD05FUNC --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
