# Module 10: Integrating SaaS Services Available on the Azure Platform

# Lab: Deploying Service Instances as Components of Overall Azure Solutions

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Deploy Function App and Cognitive Service using ARM Template

- Create Logic Apps using a Function App

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy Function App and Cognitive Service using ARM Template

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Deploy Cognitive Service using ARM

1. Create a new **Template Deployment** with the following details:

    - Custom Deployment: Type in the following

    ```
    {
        "$schema": "http://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "variables": {
            "serviceName": "[concat('cgnt', uniqueString(resourceGroup().id))]"
        },
        "resources": [
            {
                "apiVersion": "2017-04-18",
                "type": "Microsoft.CognitiveServices/accounts",
                "name": "[variables('serviceName')]",
                "kind": "TextAnalytics",
                "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
                "sku": {
                    "name": "S1"
                },
                "properties": {}
            }
        ],
        "outputs": {
            "cognitiveEndpointUrl": {
                "type": "string",
                "value": "[reference(variables('serviceName')).endpoint]"
            },
            "cognitiveEndpointKey": {
                "type": "string",
                "value": "[listKeys(variables('serviceName'), '2017-04-18').key1]"
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    - New Resource Group: MOD10COGS

    - Location: East US
    
1. Wait for the deployment of the DSC configuration to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access your newly created **Resource group**.

1. Access the Deployment **Microsoft.Template Deployment** and record the output values **CognitiveEndpointURL** and **CognitiveEndpointKey**. These values will be used later in the lab.

#### Task 3: Deploy Function App and Code

1. Create a new **Function App** with the following details:

    - App Name: any globally unique name

    - Resource Group: MOD10COGS

    - OS: Windows

    - Hosting Plan: Consumption Plan

    - Location: East US

    - Storage Name: any globally unique name

    - Application Insights: Off

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access the **Function App** you most recently created.

1. Access the **Application Settings** tab and add a setting with the following details:

    - Name: EndpointUrl

    - Value: enter the value you previously recorded for the **CognitiveEndpointURL**

1. Add another setting with the following details:

    - Name: EndpointKey

    - Value: enter the value you previously recorded for the **CognitiveEndpointKey**

1. **Save** the Application Settings.

1. Access the **Deployments** tab and Setup a deployment with the following details:

    - Source: External Repository

    - Repository URL: https://github.com/azure-labs/cognitive-services-function

    - Branch: master

    - Repository Type: Git
    
1. Wait for the first deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: You will know the first deployment has completed when you see a successful deployment operation listed on the **Deployments** tab. This tab updates automatically.

#### Task 4: Test Function App

1. Return to the  **Function Apps** blade and expand the list of functions.

    > **Note**: You may need to click the **Functions** link twice to refresh the list of functions.

1. Select the **DetermineLanguage** function and access the *Test* tab.

1. **Run** a test with the following as the *Request body*:

    ```
    {
        "text": "I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific."
    }
    ```

1. Observe the output in the **Output** section. The output should correctly identify the language as **en (English)**.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you create a Function App that is uses an Azure Cognitive Services account.

## Exercise 2: Create a Logic App using a Function App

#### Task 1: Create Logic App

1. Create a **Logic App** with the following details:

    - Name: CognitiveWorkflow

    - Resource Group: MOD10COGS

    - Location: East US

    - Log Analytics: Off

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 2: Build Logic App Steps

1. Access the **Logic App** you most recently created.

1. Create a new **Blank Logic App** and replace the code within with the code below:

    ```
    {
        "definition": {
            "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/providers/Microsoft.Logic/schemas/2016-06-01/workflowdefinition.json#",
            "actions": {},
            "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
            "outputs": {},
            "parameters": {},
            "triggers": {
                "manual": {
                    "inputs": {
                        "method": "POST",
                        "schema": {
                            "properties": {
                                "text": {
                                    "type": "string"
                                }
                            },
                            "type": "object"
                        }
                    },
                    "kind": "Http",
                    "type": "Request"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

1. In the **Designer** tab, create a new step with the following details:

    - Step: Add an action

    - Action: Azure Functions - Choose an Azure function

    - Azure Function: the named *Azure Function* instance you created earlier in this lab.

    - Function: DetermineLanguage

1. In the **DetermineLanguage** step that is created, update the step with the following items:

    - Request Body: @triggerBody()

    - Method: POST

1. Create a new step with the following details:

    - Step: Add an action

    - Action: Azure Functions - Choose an Azure function

    - Azure Function: the named *Azure Function* instance you created earlier in this lab.

    - Function: DetermineKeyPhrases

1. In the **DetermineKeyPhrases** step that is created, update the step with the following items:

    - Request Body: @body('DetermineLanguage')

    - Method: POST

1. Create a new step with the following details:

    - Step: Add an action

    - Action: Request - Response

1. In the **Response** step that is created, update the step with the following items:

    - Status Code: 200

    - Body: @body('DetermineKeyPhrases')

1. **Save** your workflow.

1. expand the **When a HTTP request is received** step and record the value of the **HTTP POST URL** field. This URL will be used later in this lab.

#### Task 2: Validate Logic App using Python

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt open the interactive python terminal:

    ```
    python
    ```

1. Import the **requests** library:

    ```
    import requests
    ```

1. Create a new variable for your Logic App's url replacing the placeholder with the value of your url recorded earlier in this lab:

    ```
    url = "[Logic App POST Url]"
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **[Logic App POST Url]** placeholder with the url for your **Logic App** instance. For example, if your url is **https://prod-16.eastus.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/b3fa4688c0f64345a6bcd7ab60c9f917/triggers/manual/paths/invoke?api-version=2016-10-01&sp=%2Ftriggers%2Fmanual%2Frun&sv=1.0&sig=UPzs4YPwh_E4nnuUgqeDOBISJmLNwBaXBvzz9WcH9sU**, your command will look like this:

    ```
    url = "https://prod-16.eastus.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/b3fa4688c0f64345a6bcd7ab60c9f917/triggers/manual/paths/invoke?api-version=2016-10-01&sp=%2Ftriggers%2Fmanual%2Frun&sv=1.0&sig=UPzs4YPwh_E4nnuUgqeDOBISJmLNwBaXBvzz9WcH9sU"
    ```

1. Send a HTTP *POST* request to trigger your Logic App workflow:

    ```
    response = requests.post(url, json={'text': 'Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward.'})
    ```

1. Print out the results from the Logic App workflow:

    ```
    print(response.status_code, response.reason, response.text)
    ```

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a Logic App that leveraged the Function Apps created earlier in this lab.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD10COGS** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD10COGS --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
