# Module 2: Deploying Resources with Azure Resource Manager

# Lab: Getting Started with Azure Resource Manager

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Create Resource Groups

- Deploy a Minimal Template

- Deploy a Simple Template

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Resource Groups

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create a Resource Group using the Portal

1. Create a **Resource group** with the following details

    - Name: MOD02STOR

    - Location: East US

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create a Resource Group using the Cloud Shell and Azure CLI

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. Within the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, view the possible list of CLI commands.

    ```
    az --help
    ```

1. View a list of possible CLI commands for *Resource Groups*:

    ```
    az group --help
    ```

1. View a list of possible CLI commands to *create a Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group create --help
    ```

1. View a list of possible CLI commands to *list Resource Groups*:

    ```
    az group list --help
    ```

1. View a list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1. Create a new **Resource group** with the following details:

    - **Name**: MOD02APPS

    - **Location**: East US

    ```
    az group create --name MOD02APPS --location eastus
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** instance.

## Exercise 2: Deploy a Minimal Template

#### Task 1: Deploy Storage Account ARM Template

1. Create a **Template Deployment** with the following details:

    - Custom Template: Type in the following

     ```
    {
        "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "resources": [
            {
                "apiVersion": "2015-06-15",
                "name": "[concat('stor', uniqueString(resourceGroup().id))]",
                "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",
                "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
                "properties": {
                    "accountType": "Standard_LRS"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

    - Resource Group: MOD02STOR

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 2: View Deployment Metadata

1. Access the **Deployments** blade of the resource group **MOD02STOR**.

1. View the *metadata* of the latest deployment.

## Exercise 3: Deploy a Simple Template

#### Task 1: View ARM Template

1. Open **deploy.json** file found in **Allfiles (F):\\Mod02\\Labfiles\\Starter** with **Visual Studio Code**.

1. Observe the file before closing **Visual Studio Code**

#### Task 2: Deploy App Service ARM Template

1. Create a new **Template deployment** with the following details

    - Custom Deployment: Allfiles (F):\\Mod02\\Labfiles\\Starter\\deploy.json

    - New Resource Group: MOD02APPS

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: View Deployment Metadata

1. Access the **Deployments** blade of the resource group **MOD02APPS**.

1. View the *metadata* of the latest deployment.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands to *delete a Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --help
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD02STOR** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD02STOR --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD02APPS** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD02APPS --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

1. Close the currently running **Visual Studio Code** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
