# Module 3: Building Azure IaaS-Based Server Applications

# Lab: Deploying Infrastructure Workloads to Azure

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Deploy a Virtual Machine PowerShell Desired State Configuration using ARM

- Deploy a Virtual Machine Scale Set using PowerShell Desired State Configuration

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows
    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy a Virtual Machine PowerShell Desired State Configuration (DSC) using ARM

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create a Windows Virtual Machine

1. Create a new Virtual Machine with the following details:

    - Name: autoconfigvm

    - VM disk type: SSD

    - Username: Student

    - Password: StudentPa55w.rd

    - New resource group: MOD03VDSC

    - Location: East US

    - Size: DS2

    - Select public inbound ports: [Needs updating]

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: View DSC Configuration

1. Create a folder called **IISWebServer** in the  **Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

1. Extract the files in **IISWebServer.zip** to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Starter\\IISWebServer**.

1. Open  **IISWebServer.ps1** with **Visual Studio Code**.

1. In the **Visual Studio Code** window that appears, observe the content of the PowerShell script.

1. Close the file and return to the **Azure Portal**.

#### Task 4: Upload DSC Configuration Module to Azure Storage

1. Create a **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue** instance with the following details:

    - Name: any globally unique name

    - Resource group: MOD03VDSC

    - Location: East US

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access the newly created **Storage account** you created.

1. Create a new **Container** within the blobs with the following details:

    - Name: config

    - Public access level: Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)

1. Access the newly created Container and upload a blob with the following details:

    - File: Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Starter\\IISWebServer.zip

1. Access the newly uploaded blob and record the value of the **URL** property.

#### Task 5: Deploy a Virtual Machine ARM Template using PowerShell DSC Extension

1. Create a **Template Deployment** with the following details:

    - Custom Template: Type in the following

    ```
    {
        "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "parameters": {
            "virtualMachineName": {
                "type": "string",
                "defaultValue": "autoconfigvm"
            },
            "configurationModuleUrl": {
                "type": "string"
            },
            "extensionFunction": {
                "type": "string",
                "defaultValue": "IISWebServer.ps1\\IISWebServer"
            }
        },
        "resources": [
            {
                "apiVersion": "2017-03-30",
                "type": "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/extensions",
                "name": "[concat(parameters('virtualMachineName'), '/dscExtension')]",
                "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
                "properties": {
                    "publisher": "Microsoft.Powershell",
                    "type": "DSC",
                    "typeHandlerVersion": "2.19",
                    "autoUpgradeMinorVersion": true,
                    "settings": {
                        "ModulesUrl": "[parameters('configurationModuleUrl')]",
                        "ConfigurationFunction": "[parameters('extensionFunction')]",
                        "Properties": {
                            "MachineName": "[parameters('virtualMachineName')]"
                        }
                    },
                    "protectedSettings": null
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

    - Resource Group: Mod03VDSC

    - Virtual Machine Name: autoconfigvm

    - Configuration Module Url: the url recorded from the uploaded blob earlier in the lab.

    - Extension Function: IISWebServer.ps1\\IISWebServer

1. Wait for the deployment of the DSC configuration to complete before moving on with this lab.


#### Task 6: Validate Virtual Machine Instance is Serving Web Content

1. Access the **Network Security Group** instance you recently created.

1. Access the **Inbound security rules** blade.

1. Add an inbound security rule with the following details:

    - Source: Any

    - Source port ranges: *

    - Destination: Any

    - Destination port ranges: 80

    - Protocol: TCP

    - Action: Allow

    - Priority: 1001

    - Name: HTTP

    - Description: Web requests for HTTP

1. Access the **Virtual Machine** you recently created.

1. Copy and navigate to the **Public IP address** of the **Virtual Machine**.

1. Observe the *IIS* placeholder webpage.

1. Return to **Azure Portal**.

## Exercise 2: Deploy a Virtual Machine Scale Set (VMSS) using PowerShell Desired State Configuration (DSC)

#### Task 1: View ARM Template

1. Navigate to the  **Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

1. Open  **vmss.json** with **Visual Studio Code**.

1. In the **Visual Studio Code** window that appears, observe the content of the JSON file.

1. Close the file and return to the **Azure Portal**.

#### Task 2: Deploy a Windows VMSS using ARM

1. Create a new Template Deployment with the following details:

    - Custom Template: Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\Labfiles\\Starter\\vmss.json

    - New resource group: MOD03VMSS

    - Instance Count: 2

    - Overprovision: true

    - Configuration Module Url: the url recorded from the uploaded blob earlier in the lab.

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Validate VMSS Instances are Serving Web Content

1. Access the newly created **Virtual Machine Scale Set** you recently created.

1. Copy and navigate to the **Public IP address**.

1. Observe the *IIS* placeholder webpage.

1. Return to **Azure Portal**.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a **Virtual Machine Scale Set** and configured the individual instances using PowerShell DSC to facilitate the VMSS service's ability to provision and de-provision **Virtual Machine** instances automatically.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD03VDSC** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD03VDSC --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD03VMSS** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD03VMSS --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
