# Module 12: Monitoring and Automating Azure Solutions

# Lab: Deploying Configuration Management Solutions to Azure

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Deploy Compute Resources

- Configure Azure Automation DSC

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy Compute Resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Deploy a Linux VM

1. Create a new **Template Deployment** with the following details:

    - Custom Deployment: Load Allfiles (F):\\Mod12\\Labfiles\\Starter\\linux.json

    - New Resource Group: MOD12AUTO

    - Location: East US

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Deploy Azure Automation Account

1. Create an **Azure Automation** account with the following details:

    - Name: LinuxAutomation

    - Resource Group: MOD12AUTO

    - Location: East US 2

    - Create Azure Run As Account: No

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a simple Linux VM using an ARM template and an Azure Automation account.

## Exercise 2: Configure Azure Automation DSC

#### Task 1: Import Linux PowerShell DSC Modules

1. Access the **Azure Automation** account you most recently created.

1. Import the **nx** module in the **Modules gallery**.

1. Wait for the import process to finish before moving on with the lab. You will see a message update in the **Module** blade indicating that the module was successfully imported.

    > **Note**: This process can take up to ten minutes.

#### Task 2: Create Linux DSC Configuration

1. Back in the **Azure Automation** blade, Add a configuration in the  **DSC configurations** blade with the following settings:

    - Configuration file: Allfiles (F):\\Mod12\\Labfiles\\Starter\\lampserver.ps1

    - Name: lampserver

    - Description: LAMP Server configuration using PHP and MySQL

1. **Compile** the newly created configuration.

1. Wait for the compilation task to finish. You will see the status of the latest compilation task in the **Compilation jobs** section of the **Configuration** blade.

    > **Note**: You may need to close and re-open the blade to see the latest compilation status. This blade does not refresh automatically.

#### Task 3: Onboard Linux VM

1. Back in the **Azure Automation** blade, add a Azure VM with the following details

    - Virtual Machine: The only virtual machine in the **MOD12AUTO** *Resouce Group*.

    - Node configuration name: lampserver.localhost

1. Wait for the connection process to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Return to the **Azure Automation - DSC nodes** blade.

1. Validate that your newly created **Virtual Machine** has a status of **Compliant**.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD12AUTO** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD12AUTO --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
